Exposure Control component reference doc (#1478)
o3de/o3de.org: content/docs/user-guide/components/reference/atom/exposure-control.md

toc: true
---

> The **Exposure Control** component adjusts the amount of light the camera exposes in the scene, which controls how bright the scene appears. You can set the exposure manually, or use *Eye Adaptation* mode to automatically adjust exposure based on the scene's brightness levels. Eye Adaptation mode adjusts the lighting in the scene so that the average brightness is at a middle gray lightness level. On top of the automatic exposure, you can further adjust the exposure by increasing or decreasing the **Manual Compensation** property, or exposure stops.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **Exposure Control** component adjusts the amount of light from the scene that the camera receives, which controls how bright the scene appears. You can set the exposure manually, or use *Eye Adaptation* mode to automatically adjust camera exposure based on the scene's brightness. Eye Adaptation mode adjusts the scene to a neutral middle gray lightness. You can make further adjustments to the automatic exposure by increasing or decreasing the **Manual Compensation** property.
```

## Provider ##

[Atom Gem](/docs/user-guide/gems/reference/rendering/atom/atom/)

## Dependencies

[PostFX Layer](/docs/user-guide/components/reference/atom/postfx-layer)

## Properties

![Exposure Control interface](/images/user-guide/components/reference/atom/exposure-control/exposure-control-component-ui.png)

### Base properties

| Property | Description | Value | Default |
| - | - | - | - |
| **Enable** | Enables the exposure control properties. | Boolean | `Enabled`  |

> | **Overrides - Enabled Override** | If enabled, you can override Exposure Control settings to have advanced PostFX looks and control. | Boolean | `Enabled` |

Author: Revised this part differently from your suggestion for more accuracy: 

>If enabled, you can override Exposure Control settings to have more control over how the PostFX behaves and looks.

| **Control Type** | Specifies how to control the exposure value. <br><br>When **Control Type** is `Manual Only`, only the **Manual Compensation** value defines the exposure value in the scene. The exposure value remains constant, despite changes in brightness in the scene that's captured by the camera. <br><br>When **Control Type** is `Eye Adaptation`, the scene's exposure automatically adjusts such that the average brightness is at a middle gray lightness level. Then, the exposure is further adjusted based on the **Manual Compensation**. | `Manual Only`, `Eye Adaptation` | `Manual Only` |
| **Manual Compensation** | Sets the exposure compensation value in stops. A lower value leads to less exposure, rendering the scene darker. A higher value renders the scene brighter. | Float: -16.0 - 16.0 | `0.0` |
| **Eye Adaptation** | See [Eye Adaptation properties](#eye-adaptation-properties).  |   |   |

### Eye Adaptation properties

The following set of properties are active when **Control Type** is set to `Eye Adaptation`.

| Property | Description | Value | Default |
| - | - | - | - |

> | **Minimum Exposure** | The minimum exposure value at which automatic exposure can automatically adjust to. | Float: -16.0 - 16.0 | `-16.0` |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| **Minimum Exposure** | The minimum value that the exposure automatically adjusts to. | Float: -16.0 - 16.0 | `-16.0` |
```

> | **Maximum Exposure** | The maximum exposure value at which automatic exposure can automatically adjust to. | Float: -16.0 - 16.0 | `16.0` |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| **Maximum Exposure** | The maximum value that the exposure automatically adjusts to. | Float: -16.0 - 16.0 | `16.0` |
```

| **Speed Up** |The speed at which automatic exposure adapts to brighter scenes. A higher value increases the speed. | Float: 0.01 - 10.0 | `3.0` |
| **Speed Down** | The speed at which automatic exposure adapts to darker scenes. A higher value increases the speed. | Float: 0.01 - 10.0 |  `1.0` |

> | **Enable Heatmap** | Provides a histogram of the exposure values that the camera captures in the scene. It appears on top of the **Viewport**. You can move the camera to see the heatmap of other areas. Areas below the **Minimum Exposure** value are highlighted in blue, and areas above the **Maximum Exposure** value in red. The numbers on the heatmap represent stops. | None | None |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| **Enable Heatmap** | Displays a histogram of the exposure values that the camera captures in the scene. It appears on top of the **Viewport**. You can move the camera to see the heatmap of other areas. Areas below the **Minimum Exposure** value are highlighted in blue, and areas above the **Maximum Exposure** value in red. The numbers on the heatmap represent exposure value stops. | None | `Disabled` |
```
